---
title     : Week 12
layout    : post
category  : Assignments
tagline   : Due Apr 28 at 3 PM
tags      : [week12]
---

# Final: Data Driven Story

> Deadline note: I'd like you to have your framework and links up by Tuesday at 3, but you're welcome to keep working on your story until class time. We'll do some more HTML in class this week and I'd love to hear from you about specific HTML challenges you'd like to tackle.

## Take a Step Back

What is your story about at this stage? If you started with a question ("Is anti-muslim violence still a problem?") you should have an answer by now ("Violence against muslims spiked in 2001 but never went back to pre 9/11 levels") and some context for that answer. 

I didn't put a word count on these stories but they don't need to be comprehensive. Tell us one thing, don't tell us everything. 

## The Little Stuff

+ Most of you are overusing chapter headers. These pieces aren't so long that they need breaks every few paragraphs. Let the text carry us.
+ Make your own charts. If you need to talk *about* someone else's chart in your piece, you can include it but it should be clear that you're talking about a chart someone else made. If you just want to reuse their data, you need to go back to the source and make the chart yourself.
+ Credit any images. if you put the image credit inside of a `<cite>...</cite>` tag we can walk through actually styling the citation in class. 
+ We haven't talked at all about links but as a general rule, if you're linking to a *noun* the link should point to a canonical source for that thing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a thing, if you're anchoring a link to the organization name, the link should probably point to the organization's home page. If you're telling me that their research found something, you want to anchor a link around *research found* and point to those findings. A report is a thing, too, so you can link the phrase *published a report* to the report itself. It's all grammar!

## All your work in one place

Your final gist or git repository should include exaclty 5 text files (`.html` and `.md` files are both text files). No more, no less:

+ Your original pitch
+ Your original storyboard
+ Your sources list
+ Your rough draft (just rename the "index.html" file to "rough_draft.html"!)
+ Your final story




