---
title     : Week 08
layout    : post
category  : assignments
tagline   : Due Mar 24 at 3 PM
tags      : [week08]

---

## Community Profile Rough Drafts

A rough draft does not have to have the polish of a final project, but it should be close. You should have created the visualizations that you plan to use. Your classmates should be able to evaluate a rough draft on its merits, without a guided tour of forthcoming features. A complete rough draft includes:

+ Clean data in spreadsheets, already normalized, sorted, manipulated
+ Visualizations of the data with labeled axes
+ Captions
+ Credits
+ A headline
+ ~~For your reporting piece:~~ at least three links to other reporting that puts your story in a broader context.
+ Introductory text ~~that includes information gleaned from at least one human source.~~
+ A source list. 

You're going to file your rough draft in a gist, which should include three separate files:

+ `index.html` is your rough draft
+ `storyboard.md` or `storyboard.html` (your choice) is the version of the story board that you submitted on Feb 25.
+ `pitch.md` (or `pitch.html`, again, your choice) is the version of the pitch submitted Feb 18. 

File your draft by adding it to the [assignments document](https://docs.google.com/a/journalism.cuny.edu/document/d/1kUg2EfTBZsK0HG5TAenIa68_d9B6Od6uO6B_BRch0SE/edit?usp=sharing)


## Stuck?

If you need technical assistance, don't hesitate to [ask for it](https://github.com/amandabee/CUNY-data-skills/issues)! 

Keep our guide to [asking good questions](http://amandabee.github.io/CUNY-data-skills/hands-on/goodquestions.html) in mind -- remember that the easier it is for me to repeat your steps, the faster I can point you in the right direction!
