---
title     : Gists
layout    : post
category  : hands-on
tagline   : Quick and easy(ish) HTML hosting
tags      : [week03, html, gists]

---

We will get into adding images to a repository, but ... later. For now, use Imagur. Or one of [Lifehackers other top services](http://lifehacker.com/5804337/five-best-services-for-quick-image-sharing).

I like to use [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax) for basic composition, but to make a page you can actually show off, you need some HTML. Call it `index.html` and you can view it in [Bl.ocks](http://bl.ocks.org/):

<https://bl.ocks.org/amandabee/raw/1f97f9639a1b7128559f/>

-------------------

A complete HTML page has a few basic components -- it has a `head` and a `body` nested inside of `<html>` tags. The very most basic template looks something like this:

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8">
            <title>Page Title</title>
        </head>
        <body>
        </body>
    </html>
    
The `DOCTYPE` declaration tells browsers that this page really is written in HTML. The `lang` attribute tells search engines (mostly) that this page is in the english language. And the `charset` attribute tells the browser what characters to use -- in our case mostly the English alphabet and numerals. This won't be on the test, though, so don't worry too much about it. 

You're going to want much more layout control than you can get from an unstyled HTML page, but we're not here to learn CSS, at least not this semester. We're going to use a template called [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) to give our pages a cleaner look and to help us incorporate some interactivity into them.

## Bootstrap Template

Bootstrap will let you build out a clean page that moves easily between large and small screens, and their templating system makes it easy to build out things like slideshows. Which we'll get to. 

I've put together a Bootstrap template that you can just copy and paste to get started:

+ [Basic Bootstrap](https://github.com/amandabee/cunyjdata/blob/master/lecture%20notes/bootstrap/basic_bootstrap_with_jquery.html)

Copy that template into a new, blank text file, save it with an `.html` extension and open it in your browser. 

## Basic HTML Tags

Browsers ignore linebreaks and white space in an HTML page. That's handy, because it means you can organize and indent your code however you like, but it also means that you have to do more than just hit <kbd>return</kbd> to start a new paragraph.

**paragraphs** Without any markup, the contents of an HTML page will just flow together into one big blob. Wrap them in `<p>`...`</p>` tags to make paragraphs.

**links** use the "anchor" tag. Anything between the opening `<a ...>` and the closing `</a>` will be a link. Anchors need at least one attribute, too: the URL of the page to link *to*. That attribute is `href`. So create a link with: 

    <a href="https://journalism.cuny.edu">CUNY Graduate School of Journalism</a>
    
**headings** are available in six levels: `<h1>` through `<h6>`.    


## More HTML Tags

> DOCTYPE - document type

> html - “what follows is HTML”

> head - invisible part of your page

> link - to attach CSS stylesheets   
  
> title - title of the page

> meta - information *about* your page, ()like the character set)     

> style - for inline CSS styling

> body - visible part of your page

> a - anchors a link (important attribute: href)

> blockquote - for large quotes

> br - line break

> cite - citation

> div - content block or "division"

> em - text w/ emphasis (aka italics)

> h1 - first header

> h2, h3,...h6

> img - image (important attribute: src; always include the alt attribute for accessibility)
> ul - unordered list

> ol - ordered list

> li - list item

> p - paragraph

> span - inline content divider -- think of this as a highlighter. 

> strong - strong text emphasis (aka bold)    




*[HTML]: Hyper Text Markup Lanuage
*[english]: en
